Well, hi everyone and welcome back to
pushing the limits. Lisa Ty here. I am
so so excited to introduce you to one of
the most eminent luminaries in the field
of cancer, Dr. Thomas Safe who's with us
to guest today to share his incredible
research and information that could
literally save your life. So listen up
people. Um Dr. Thomas, welcome to the
show. It's fantastic to have you.
>> Oh well very nice to be here Lisa. Thank
you very much. Um, I just gave you a
little bit of a backstory on my mom
before you started recording and you
know I feel like you and and and many of
your colleagues as well that are working
in the space literally have saved her
life. So thank you for the work that you
are doing. It is uh incredibly important
and and uh very dear to my heart that we
get this message out there of um the the
problems with the the the cancer the
cancer is is is a horrific thing to be
faced with. Um and for decades
science has really followed the sematic
genetic uh theory of of cancer. Can you
go into why that's barking up the wrong
tree or not quite correct and where, you
know, where do we start with this
metabolic approach to cancer?
>> Yeah. Well, that's a that's a very good
question. Of course, it's it's kind of a
a long story. Um, how do how did we get
today in treating people
for cancer in a most incorrect way? uh
not only there in New Zealand where you
are uh but also here in the United
States and almost every major western
country uh or let's put it this way um
technologically advanced society
does the same thing over and over again.
um and the treatments that are being
developed. Uh you you you have to
approach a scientific problem with a
with a with a kind of um uh theory as to
what the nature of the disease is
because if you really understand the
nature of the disease, then the
treatments that you use to manage the
disease are linked to the hard science
of the disease. So most of the
treatments today for cancer are based on
the view that cancer is a genetic
disease. called the somatic mutation
theory of cancer which exploded probably
after uh DNA was the structure of DNA
was first discovered um in that early
1950s
uh through the 1950s when DNA became a
really hot topic in gene regulation
and uh you know scientists I I have a
degree in a doctoral degree in genetics
and biochemistry
And we all knew about mutations. They
would, you know, cause shortness or
tallness or change flower colors and,
you know, people had certain albinism
and different kinds of things. And we
all knew these were controlled by
mutations. But then in the 50s when DNA
was finally the structure was elucidated
by Watson and Crick and others, um
people began to see broken and abnormal
DNA in cancer cells. And um based on
that and the uh surge of scientific
interest in gene expression and diseases
related to gene mutations, it only
became natural that the field uh ran and
and stampede into this whole idea that
all of these if you look at tumors from
any person or any place, they're loaded
with broken DNA and broken chromosomes
and individual point mutations and all
this, you know, but before the DNA
revolution, Otto Warberg in Germany had
clearly defined uh what cancer was and
he was a very dominant aristocratic uh
German. Um and he had shown clearly that
cancer arises as the result of a
disturbance in energy metabolism.
Um and because of that the cells to get
energy had to fall back on an ancient
pathway uh an airloomic pathway of
fermentation
>> uh which is energy without oxygen. Mhm.
>> So he had clearly defined all of this uh
that cancer clearly arose. Every every
major tumor that he studied uh was using
this ancient fermentation pathway even
in the presence of oxygen which should
which should never happen. And he was a
a very dominant he had received the
Nobel Prize in the 1930s for his
discovery of the respiratory enzyme in
the mitochondrian. In other words, the
enzyme that allowed us to generate
energy by by breathing oxygen.
>> So he was a very dominant guy. Hitler
>> uh protected him during the Second World
War because he was a half Jew and Hitler
was as crazy as Hitler was he was smart
enough to know that if anyone was going
to cancer it was going to be Ad Warberg.
>> Wow.
>> He wasn't that dumb. Right. So cancer
and it it was a very interesting story
that Sam Apple just put out in his book
called Ravenous the history of
>> but the problem is was when in 1950s
when DNA was recognized as the genetic
material and cancer cells had damaged
DNA. Um they threw Warberg under the
bus.
>> Yep.
>> And they moved on from his from him. He
he um there were some criticisms which
now have we have completely resolved and
shown how he was so correct in what he
thought but he didn't have all of the
information that we have today. So, um,
we then I started to jump into this
whole thing because we were doing
research here at Boston College and
seeing how powerful water only fasting
was in targeting all of these different
uh factors that were supposed to be
cancer drivers. And then we saw a
complete correlation between the level
of sugar in the blood and how fast the
tumor would grow. And we realized that
the higher the sugar, the faster the
tumor, the lower the sugar, the slower
the tumor would grow. And this is
exactly what Warberg said. And then we
realize the sugar drives these ancient
heirloomic pathways. So it became very
clear that uh this shift from energy
through oxygen consumption to energy
through ancient fermentation was in fact
the driver of this disregulated cell
growth. And it turns out that the
mutations that we see that are the focus
of the somatic mutation theory and the
development of the current approaches to
manage cancer are all downstream effects
uh of this damaged uh uh energy
metabolism. So the field is is chasing
effects not the causes o of the cancer.
And this now can uh accounts you know
when we irdiate people um we just try to
incinerate as many growing cells as
possible because the cells are growing
out of control for the reasons of gene
mutations and then we try poisonous
chemicals that are supposed to stop the
replication of the abnormal DNA and then
we come in with imunotherapies and
precision medicine which are targeting
the mutations and the pathways of the
mutations. And none of this stuff is
working because it's not based on the
underlying correct theory which we have
clearly shown to be correct that these
cells can't live without these fuels
that drive the energy the ancient energy
pathways. And we have interrogated the
cancer cells and have shown that only
two fuels can drive the abnormal growth.
And that's the sugar glucose and the
well-known amino acid glutamine. And as
long as the cancer cells have access to
these two fuels in the body, they have
the chance of continuing to grow and
spread. And then we learned that because
their organel the mitochondria that gets
energy through oxygen because that is
defective these cancer cells cannot burn
ketone bodies which come from when you
water only fasting.
>> Yeah.
>> Ke you you lower sugar and elevate
ketone bodies because your brain needs
glucose but it can switch to these water
soluble ketone bodies which come from
breakdown fat. So the fat in our fat
cells goes to our liver and chops up the
fat into these water- soluble smaller
molecules that go to the brain and other
organs that have good respiration. But
the tumor cell can't use this because
their respiration is defective. So so it
helps the normal cells and marginalizes
the tumor cells. So, if you can elevate
the ketone bodies and reduce glucose and
glutamine, the two fuels that drive the
fermentation, you now have a real
powerful tool uh to manage the cancer.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford. We will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy, as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at
school.com/keto
for cancer.
And what we do now is we use that
transition of the body and then we add
these different kinds of small drugs,
repurpose drugs in very low dosages to
eliminate any toxicity. And now these
repurposed drugs become laser beams to
kill these tumor cells without the
toxicity. It's unbelievable.
>> You know, incredible
based on the correct knowledge of what
the cancer is. Yeah. Once you understand
that,
>> then you realize the crazy stuff that
we're doing to these cancer patients is
essentially medieval. It's based on a on
a flawed understanding of the disease
and an incorrect theory
>> and it's going to shorten your life too
when you're when you're doing, you know,
like the oxidative stress that it comes
from it. And if we look at the the
ancient our ancient DNA like when like
our ancestors our you know native
ancestors here the MAI overseas the
Aboriginals the red Indians the you know
all of the peoples they generally didn't
have cancer did they like it's a
modernday
>> you know much more of a modern day thing
and people say well maybe they didn't
live long enough to get it but I think
it's really got another reason and it's
that fact that we have now radically
changed two things we've radically
changed uh the toxins in our environment
and the food that we're eating and we
were always in a half starved state when
we were as people. So now we are
surrounded by food. Unfortunately, we've
got the genetics that drives us to find
food and to eat food and we have
>> and to store and to store it
>> and to store it. And we have also got
you know the genetics. We we we we are
trained if you like genetically to go
and search out carbohydrates because
they were rare.
>> Yes.
>> Now when they're on every street corner
and you got the big food industry that
is hellbent on making you addicted to
their particular type of food as well,
then you've got a a bit of a a bit of a
mess, you know, when you've got when you
got that going on
>> and not getting into states of ketosis
like we were regularly. Um,
>> so glutamine and glucose. So going back
to so Autumn Warberg um the the it's the
mitochondria that go ary first, isn't
it? Not the so the genetics that happen
the the changes and the mutations happen
later on in the piece. But it's the
mitochondria. So if you took the the
that famous experiment where they took
the nucleus out of a healthy cell and
put it into
which way around was it into a damaged
mitochondria or the other way around. Um
>> yes both ways. What I did that I
published that paper in 19 uh or 2015
and all I did uh was take and summarize
a series of experiments that had been
published for over many decades u in
different animal species, different
tumors, different approaches and I
looked at the nuclear transfer
experiments. Um, and none of the folks
that were doing these experiments were
asking whether or not the data would
support the somatic mutation theory or
the mitochondrial metabolic theory. The
the reason was is that all of those
experiments were done uh under the
silent assumption. Well, they weren't
even interested in genetics. The the
purpose of those experime cancer, they
were not interested in cancer. They were
only interested in a singular question.
Can the nucleus of a cancer cell direct
normal development?
>> It wasn't to test the somatic mutation
theory. The answer was yes. Nuclei from
cancer cells can direct development in a
frog or a mouse or a rat or one of these
things only up until a certain point and
then the organism would abort. And it
turned out that uh depending upon how
many mutations were in the nucleus that
was being transferred determined how far
in development the organism would go
before it imploded or aborted. And and
and the the reason was because there was
a mutation that was absolutely critical
at some point in development required to
move from one stage of development to
the next stage a more advanced complete
stage and that was not there. So the
organism aborted. So but at no time did
any of these organisms
uh show a disregulated cell growth. So
one would have to assume that none of
the mutations in those nucleus were
sufficient by themselves to cause what
we call cancer is is disregulated
uh disregulated cell growth. And um on
the other hand, if you took the normal
nucleus and put it into the cytoplasm of
a tumor cell, you either got dead cells
or cancer disreg cells with disregulated
growth. So that clearly said it was
something in the cytoplasm, not the
nucleus that was driving disregulated
cell growth. And Warberg clearly said
it's the mitochondria that's respond and
they're in the cytoplasm. So uh the our
focus of attention in cancer is now
completely shifted to a completely
different organel that runs the
metabolism of the cell. And that organel
the mitochondrian maintains the
differentiated quiescent state of of
adult normal differentiated cells. And
when that organel becomes gradually
corrupted in some way, it loses its
ability to maintain stability and the
cells fall back on these ancient
pathways of disregulated cell growth
because that same organel controls the
cell cycle which leads to dis and is and
the cell will grow disregulated based as
long as it has these fermentable fuels
in its environment which is the glucose
and the glutamine. Because it turns out
that all of the cells on the planet two
billion years ago when there was no
oxygen, no oxygen, they all used the
same fermentable fuels. Yeah.
>> So the cancer cell is simply going back
to the time no oxygen.
>> And so
>> it's not that it's not that complicated.
You you need to know evolutionary
biology and you need to understand
energy metabolism and you need to
understand genetics because when you
understand genetics you know that the
arguments for the sematic mutation
theory cannot be correct. So you really
have to know genetics and you have to
know what's correct and what's not
correct. And the sematic mutation theory
which is the driver of all of the major
cancer developments and treatments is
incorrect. And as the result we have an
epidemic of cancer also linked to what
you said about the food uh the food
obesity is putting us replace smoking as
the number as a major risk factor for
cancer and it's all related to the
chemicals in the environment. It's all
related to the abnormal food environment
that we have. And now we have suffering
this. And it's not just cancer. It's
diabetes,
um, type two diabetes, dementia,
cardiovascular disease, all of these
so-called high blood pressure. It's all
linked to the same thing.
>> Exactly. And so you fix, you know, you
know, I've had lots of clients where if
they've got type two diabetes, we put
them on a keto diet, get them
exercising, doing, and hello, 10 10
years, 15 years as a diabetic, no longer
in insulin dependent, no longer
diabetic.
>> It's not it's not rocket science.
>> It's difficult. I'm not saying it's
easy. It's not easy for the person.
They've got to make change, but they're
in control once they understand. But
they've never been told
>> about this, how this works. And then
this is the mind-blowing thing that you
can actually help. I mean, and diabetes
is the gateway for all of these things,
Alzheimer's and all the rest of it. In
fact, it starts earlier with insulin
resistance.
>> Yes.
>> So, you see glucose and glutamine now
glucose like we can lower our glucose.
We can go on a carb low carb diet, a
keto diet where So you're you're saying
all the other cells beside the cancer
cells can actually use ketones and fatty
acids to uh to to survive and thrive.
But the cancer cells need the glucose
and the glutamine. Now I sort of get
that now. The glutamine is the tougher
one, isn't it? Because I I've run into a
situation with my mom. I've had her on a
low, you know, at the very start, you
know, fasting or very, very low,
basically a few vegetables on a plate
and that was it while we went hard out
in this press pulse, you know, killing
phase. Then we got on top of it. Uh, and
the the the problem I ran into was um
recently a GI bleed. So, she had two GI
bleeds. Now, we've been running her low
on glutamine. we've been running, you
know, um, and we need glutamine, don't
we? We need it for the immune system,
the ura cycle. Uh, and so this one's a
little bit tougher than the glucose,
isn't it? Because we can't go without
glut glutamine altogether.
>> So, how do we deal with that?
>> Yeah. Well, that's that's what we that's
our pulse uh strategy of the press
pulse. you can press glucose really
really low um and create a tremendous
deficit as long as ketone bodies can be
elevated. Ketone bodies can replace
glucose for most of the body's energy
metabolism.
>> Okay.
>> Um the cancer cell uses glucose to for
metabolite synthesis. They need to
building blocks to grow new cells and
the carbons from glucose are essential
for the cancer cell. But don't forget
our normal cells are not growing in any
great speed. So they're fine as long as
they have as long as they have some
energy. But what we found and it's only
some of the can you have to realize
there are some cancer cells that are
more dependent on glucose than
glutamine. And then there's other cancer
cells that are dependent on both glucose
and glutamine. And the ones that are
meta metastatic, the ones that spread
through your body, uh we have shown
clearly that all metastatic cancers
regardless of where they arise, whether
it's the breast, the colon, the bladder,
the lung, they have characteristics of
macrofagages
>> which are part of our immune system. The
macroofage is a major cell I in our in
our bodies. It it fights bacterial
infections. It it reconfigures broken
tissue and all this. It has a tremendous
role in the gut. It has a tremendous
role in maintaining the health and
vitality
of our immune cells. And that's they're
all glutamine. These cells all uh use
glutamine
uh excessively and glucose. So some
cancer cells are more glucose dependent,
others are glutamine and glucose
dependent. So the question then is how
do you target a an essential a a fuel?
Yes. That not only drives the cancer
cell uh but also is essential for the
very immune system that we need to
maintain our health.
>> It's a bit tough. This is this is why we
developed this strategy where if we put
a choke hold on the glucose levels and
raise the ketone level then we come in
with a short burst an attack on the
glutamine because what that will do will
be killing the cancer cells. It
paralyzes the immune system but it
doesn't kill the immune system. It just
stuns the immune system but it kills the
cancer cells. So then we pull the
glutamine drug off, allow the recovery
of our immune cells to do what they do,
which is pick up dead corpse bodies and
things like this, clean up the micro
environment. The micro environment of a
tumor is very messy and uh it's coming
from the fermentation. So the tumor
cells take in glucose and glutamine and
the waste products acidify the micro
environment, right? So, so you pull the
plug on the on the fermentation fuels,
you kill them with a small dose like six
deoxy nor leucine and there's a number
of other small drugs that are coming out
that could be effective. But they only
work when you target the glucose. If you
do not target the glucose, none of this
will work
>> because that's the main player here.
>> Yeah. And you we just published a paper
today it it or yesterday showing how if
we put a a ch on on pediatric brain
cancer a a model uh a pre-clinical a
beautiful preclinical model for
pediatric brain cancer where they use
all these drugs with they weren't
effective in targeting this or targeting
that. So we choke choke off the glucose.
We put them under therapeutic ketosis
and then we hit them with these drugs
that will target the glutamine pathway
and kill these tumor cells like you
can't believe. But you can only do it
you can only do it in a short. You have
to know it's a powerful weapon but you
have to know how to use the weapon.
>> And exactly this is the tough part when
you haven't got access to yourself. Like
you know we live here in New Zealand and
we go to our local doctor. They're not
going to know about glutamine blocking
drugs.
>> Yeah. Well, this is the whole thing. I
mean, we're trans we're transitioning
the entire cancer industry over to the
to treat the right way. And physicians
need need to know that it's a metabolic
disease. They need to know that it can't
use ketone bodies to grow. They can't
they need to know that they're dependent
on glucose and glutamine. And they need
to know how to use glutamine targeting
drugs effectively.
patients.
>> They should be very excited about this
because now they can certainly practice
dosage timing and scheduling and not
every not everybody will need one dosage
or another or need it for this long or
that long or need it scheduled with this
or that. So that's what our research is
right now. Our research is not
considered it's we the field would
consider it unsexy science because
all we're trying to do is find the best
dosage timing and scheduling to get rid
of the cancer.
>> And you know um when you go to the top
medical schools regardless of where they
are, they're all interested in intricate
mechanisms of
>> the mutations of this and that.
>> They're not interested in the the
resolution of cancer that get rid of it.
I say once let's get rid of it or at
least put it under managed control and
then once we can do that for the
majority of people living with cancer on
the planet we can always go back for the
next several hundred years and then
figure out all the detailed minutia
mechanisms. Yeah.
>> But why should we allow all these poor
cancer patients to suffer and die while
we're looking for the minutia when we
have a solution in hand right now that
can work. But we need to train
physicians and oncologists to know how
to use the new weaponry. Y
>> uh and it's and a lot of it falls on the
shoulders of the patient. Now the
patient
>> totally you know like like usual
>> you have the patient themselves have to
be participatory in the healing process.
>> Y
>> if they don't want to participate it's
not going to work.
And it takes ch like you know we we were
given a terminal diagnosis by dozen
doctors with mom and you're not going to
survive this and this is very aggressive
and very quick um you know and there was
nothing you could do and there couldn't
been further from the truth. there is so
much that we can do and I've struggled
to get the things that I need to get for
her and I've done um uh you know off
label drug combinations the metformin
out of a statin doxy cyclendazol what's
your take on those and what's your
>> that's our paper that we also just
published with mbmenazol
>> showing that it has some therapeutic
benefit in simultaneously targeting
glucose and glutamine
>> but if you but the way you do that you
got to in order for those drugs to
really have the biggest impact you have
to lower that blood sugar. Yeah. And put
the choke hold on the sugar.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you can
>> and embendol is used in India for
parasite worms. I mean everybody in the
population takes embendazol.
>> Yeah.
>> So um it's not a toxic drug and it even
becomes more powerful against cancer
once you prepare the patient for the
drug. So step one is clean the mess up,
prepare the patient, get them into get
them into ketosis, and then hit them
with these glutamine targeting drugs,
glucose glutamine targeting drugs, and
do it until the cancer goes away. I
mean, people say, "Oh, how long do I
have to do this?" I don't know. I mean,
just do it as long, some people may have
to do it for 10 months, some people for
for for two years. I The answer is I
don't know. Um, our our guy Pablo Kelly
from Devon, England, who has a
glyopblasto is now out um nine years
this August.
>> Wow.
>> And his tumor is still there.
>> Okay. Is Pablo No, but Pablo has lived
nine years longer than
>> with the worst cancer that there is.
>> Yeah. He's had married. He's had two
kids. He would have never had any of
this had he followed the standard of
care. And is is two two deoxy glucose um
is that a glutamine uh inhibitor like
the two deoxyor
lysine
>> 2DG targets gluc glucose pathway
>> it also has off target effects
>> but but the issue with 2D and that's
what Warberg and some of those other
guys they didn't know about the
glutamine problem. No.
>> So they were just strictly trying to
target the glucose. And not only that,
they also felt that proper nutrition and
vitamins might help uh recover some of
the damage to the mitochondria even even
though Warberg himself said it was an
irreversible damage. Uh he he never knew
how to fully exploit his discovery of
the origin. Uh I picked that up. But I
knew exactly what I should do, what we
should do
>> to take advantage of this.
>> So uh uh because I I expanded the area
that Warberg didn't have the information
in.
>> So Warberg absolut absolutely was
correct on the origin of cancer. He just
did not know how to exploit that for the
management of cancer. So now we know
it's glucose and glutamine. And now we
know we have diet drug combination
cocktails that can really do a lot of
damage to these tumor cells while not
harming the rest of the body. So, uh,
uh,
>> what do people what do people do who
can't get the glutamine blockers at the
moment? Like you live in New Zealand,
you can't get that.
>> Well, that we we found that long-term
water only fasting
>> um, will lower blood glutamine down.
Cahill and a number of people did that.
But, you know, when you tell a cancer
patient that might not be in good
physical shape, Yeah., hey, you got to
stop eating food for 14 to 21 days, I
mean, they look at you like you're crazy
and I don't want to. Um, so you know
what we try to do is is ease them into a
a ketoic state. Uh, and then when you
jump from a ketoic state into water only
fasting, the jump is not so traumatic.
>> If you take someone on a high glucose
diet who's eaten high carbohydrates,
>> it's going to be painful.
>> Oh, it's horrible, man. It's it's hard.
It's hard. And people say, "I don't want
to do this. What are you crazy?" But if
you if you give them a carnivore diet um
you know a low calorie
no glucose just meet this guy from
Australia uh Anthony Chaffis Chaffy he
he's he's had tremendous success with
low carbohydr low low calorie uh uh
carnivore. I'm not saying plants can't
do the same thing. It's just harder for
our bodies to ma metabolize plants and
and some plants have more sugar than
meat. Um so, you know, it's just a I
that's why we developed the glucose
ketone index calculator
>> uh with with a keto mojo meter that
allows all the cancer patients uh to get
into the zone. And once they're in this
low car, low carb, highfat, high ketone
zone, then you can use small doses of a
variety of drugs like tudoxy glucose,
very very low dose, a little bit of
dawn, very low doses, uh, and variety of
other drugs. But if you fast long
enough, just water only, uh, we see
blood glutamine going down and glucose
goes down. And I know of many many
people who have completely removed their
tumor with long-term water only fasting.
But you know, I I'm not a physician. I
can't tell anybody what to do or what
not to do. All I can say is when I see
people that have done long longterm
water only fasting, more than not more
often than not, their their tumors are
completely dissolved without taking any
glutamine targeting drugs.
>> Wow. So,
>> that's our other option if we can't get
the
>> Yeah, I think that's why I'm I'm more
excited about uh getting people into a
low glucose ketone index and then
hitting them. Let the physicians do
their work by by helping with dosage
timing and scheduling because we're at
the very early in beginning stages of
this whole thing. We're going to be able
to find many many drug diet cocktails
that will be very very effective in
managing cancer. But again, the the
patient is going to have to be a key
participant in the healing process.
>> Well, either that or you die, you know,
like
>> yes,
>> this is the thing. You you you can't
outsource your health. I've learned that
so many times in the last decade that
you have to be an active participant in
wanting to get better and you need
support. When I'm working with people
with cancer and helping them get it, I
get their loved ones on board if I can
because without that support around
them, it's also very hard.
>> And I you never want to underplay the
importance of exercise.
>> Yes.
>> Moderate exercise. Yes. That is all part
of the solution.
>> Yes.
>> You just cannot sit on a couch and wait
for the the metabolic therapy to work.
It works a hell of a lot better if
you're doing exercise and you don't have
to go nuts. Uh, you know, running
marathons and lifting hundreds of pounds
of weights or kilos of weights or
whatever you
>> which actually
>> good good walking, swimming, something
that gets the heart beating, the oxygen
in
>> together metabolic state. I'm
intermittent fasting, you know, eating
extremely low calorie, low carbohydrate
diets. And people are now becoming very
very innovative in the diets. We have a
guy from Greece uh with lung cancer that
metastasized to his lungs and his brain.
And he's out now 11 years on a
calorierestricted Mediterranean type
diet with low glucose, elevated ketone.
So we think these can be culturally
appropriate metabolic therapies. So
>> you don't have to be a carnivore or you
could be a vegetarian, you can be a
vegan. You can do as long as you are low
carb and you're getting the the problem.
>> Yeah. What what we find though is when
you get the meter and you know we
publish 2.0 or below.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh in fact below is better.
>> Um it's easier for carnivores than
vegans to get into that zone. Let's put
it that way. Yeah,
>> I wouldn't say a vegans are very
difficult. U vegetarians uh more
vegetarian vegetarians have to work a
lot longer and harder uh to get into
ketosis
uh than do carnivores. Um, you know,
like you said at the beginning, you
know, we were all on a level of ketosis
and our paleolithic ancestry and our
Paleolithic ancestors were largely meat
eaters. They would eat uh vegetables if
they could get a hold of them and maybe
some
unripe fruits or whatever, nuts and
berries and things, but clearly it was
the majority of our food came from from
meat. And we and they were always in
some level of ketosis because
carbohydrates were not available. You
know, um the Neolithic period is when we
started to grow rice, wheat, corn, and
all this kind of stuff and and they were
all a boom be which led to civilization
because they had higher amounts of
calories and uh allowed people to build
cities and things around the calories.
But our paleolithic ancestors were
hunter gatherers, but they were always
in a state of of of semi ketosis. So
most of the plants that we eat have been
cultivated. They're not like wild
plants. Maybe some of them are, but I I
I think there's a lot of nutrition in
certain amount of vegetation, but I
don't think it's hard. It's been harder
for those vegetarians or especially
vegans to get into a GKI. I've had
people tell me from different countries
who cannot eat meat that they they they
they cannot uh do that and they end up
dying. Um so so they can't get they
never can get their culture, religion or
whatever it is uh prevents them uh from
ever achieving a glucose ketone index
that would save their life.
>> And what about the glutamine in the
meat? You know, like there's amino acids
in meat.
>> Yeah. But it's interesting. It's it's
not um um it's not it's in the micro
environment of the tumor. We're testing
that right now. We actually have some
studies underway right now asking
whether uh uh glutamine supplementation
of a of a ketogenic diet um will uh will
enhance growth. And the answer is we we
we know that it's certainly not
suppressing it's certainly not
suppressing the growth of the tumor.
Whether it's going to make it grow
faster or not, I can't say because the
experiments aren't done yet. But we plan
to do all that. We plan to answer all of
the different kinds of questions that
come up by both preclinical studies as
well as human studies. So, we'll know
the answer to these questions in the
future.
>> This that's great and I'm I'm looking
forward to that because, you know, the
glutamine is a bit of a difficult one
when you've got say like with mom's
case, she's got GI bleed. She nearly
died twice of a GI bleed. So I could
have run her glutamine so low that I was
disrupting her microbiome and you know
the lining of her gut um kill her that
way. You know what I mean?
>> Oh yeah. Oh this is where you need a
good um nutritionist dietician along
with the oncologist.
>> You need each patient is a little
different from the other.
>> Yeah. Each patient is a little different
from the other and and that's the nice
thing about it is I mean you you
streamline and build diets and
procedures that are appropriate for the
physiology of that individual if it's a
male or a female or an old person or a
young person. I mean you you and their
condition state of condition everything
has to be balanced for that. That's why
you need uh a readout a metabolic
readout of each patient before you begin
any kind of a treatment. And then you
could streamline the treatment based on
that person's individual metabolism.
>> And uh and this is the future. So a
patient comes in, yeah, you're going to
say, well, you you know, if you're
insulin insensitive, we got to get you
back. And if you're cholesterol and
triglycerides are all screwed up, I
mean, we need to get you back. A lot of
people are infected with parasites and
stuff. I mean, we have to clean you up.
Uh metal imbalances, all kinds of crap
in the blood. And all of that has to be
recognized and has to be dealt with. And
it's a process. You're moving a person
from a state of unhealth unwwellness to
wellness. Y and and that person wasn't
born unwell. They they acquired
unwellness from their diet and
lifestyle. And that didn't happen
overnight.
>> It took it took years to that. So we
have to undo and reconfigure normaly in
the body while at the same time killing
off these tumor cells.
>> So um it's a beautiful strategy. It's
going to be wor.
excited to get more nuance into this so
that I can, you know, like we've done
really well, but we could do better. And
uh there's more that I don't understand
and that I need to understand,
especially around the glutamine thing. I
think that's
>> Yeah. Well, I think that's that's
definitely the the a point of of issue
because we're we're not 100% sure about
it either because we don't know how long
to pulse and uh you know dosage the
dosages the timing the strategy that all
is work being worked out now and uh we
have to improve that uh no question
about it I I'm not sitting here saying
oh I have the solution to the whole
cancer problem I have a solution that
needs to be perfected and modified to be
make it much much more uh uh uh
effective for the majority of people and
we're learning that.
>> Uh but I know this is the right path.
>> Yeah,
>> this is the future. this will be the
future because it's based on a hard
knowledge of the science that's driving
the disregulated cell growth and we can
have massive improvement in but the
other problem I wouldn't say it's a
problem but you're taking you're making
a lot of uh o obese people thin a lot of
people that were uh diabetic
non-diabetic no high blood pressure goes
away hypertension goes away I mean this
is like
>> this is a this is a cash cow for an
industry in other because you're taking
away all of the besides the cancer,
you're making people very healthy. They
don't need the drugs and things like
this. So, um, so I don't know how that
how the system is going to deal with
that. But, you know, I just want to show
that we we can do what we and there's
enough. We have a movie coming out um
that's already part. It's a five-part
series.
>> Yeah, we're in it. Mom and I Mom Mom and
I are in it.
>> Oh, are you the Cancer Revolution?
>> Yeah. Yeah. a wonderful, wonderful work
that they're doing.
>> Well, I think when people begin to see
all these so-called terminal cancer
patients not alive.
>> Exactly. Meant to be dead long ago.
>> Yeah. There's another there's another
another patient from uh New Zealand with
Dr. um um uh
>> Phillips.
>> Phillips, Matthew Phillips.
>> He has a patient that was absolutely
considered a a dead person walking.
>> Wow. uh they had a a malignant thyroid
cancer that kills almost everybody. And
that person came on perfectly healthy. I
mean, it was a struggle to to get rid of
it, but but she certainly is doing well
now in New Zealand. He's he's been part
of our consultation team as well.
>> Well, I've got to get hold of him, too,
then.
>> Oh, yeah. And one of his patient is in
the same movie.
>> Well, we're both going to be in the same
movie. That's that's
>> your mother and your mother and the
other New Zealanders will be in there.
You guys got to start connecting with
each other. You'll find a
>> We've gone to Boston to come back to New
Zealand.
>> Absolutely. I I work I work with the
Australians. I work with the people from
India. I work with the Chinese. I work
with the Koreans. Uh you know, we work
with the Germans and the English and the
French and the Turks. The
>> This is wonderful. This is wonderful
news. Actually, I heard on one of your
lectures you're talking about the
Istanbul um some some researchers Istanb
using
>> your approach but then adding in low low
lowd dose chemo and I know Dr. David
Minkoff does this as well. Um is that
insulin potentiated low chemo or is it
just low low chemo? So you you're
getting the cancer cells really stressed
out. You're stealing all their food.
They're really at the precipice of dying
and then you just push them over the
cliff with some very low dos. Yes, you
don't you can use very very low doses of
chemo. So you don't need these high high
doses and and it's a sequence of events.
They use hypothermia, some a little
instant potentiation, keto metabolic
therapy. You're what you're doing these
tumor cells are already very weak.
>> They they and everybody says how strong
they are. Yeah, they're strong. As long
as you feed them glucose and glutamine,
they become like Samsons.
>> But you take take away that, they have
no power. They end up
>> Achilles heel of the cancer.
>> Oh, no. they they so a little chemo will
just throw them over the edge and then
of course the the adver toxic adverse
effects from the chemo are so much less
we have uh longo Dr. Del Longo in Los
Angeles
>> is using water only fasting with lowd
dose chemo and they and they don't have
to talk very minimal toxicity very very
effective so you know you just need to
know your physiology and and I said
before you you do this uh you need to
know the physiology of the patient the
the paper we published with the Istanbul
group was a woman with advanced breast
cancer that metastasized to her brain
and her lungs and her bone and the and
the clinic in Cleveland uh in Ohio uh
said she was terminal and she would have
one month to live and she went to the
Istanbul clinic and was put in emergency
care medicine for at least a week and a
half or two weeks. she was almost dead
from bacterial infections and everything
>> and finally she was uh recovered was
touch and go there for a while
>> and then then she took the um metabolic
therapy from that clinic and within a
few months uh the cancer was gone and
she flew back to the United States and
then we got pictures of her and her
husband enjoying life in Hawaii.
>> Amazing. Hawaii
>> and this was who was given one month
left to live
>> with terminal cancer in the brain and
all over. But but but you know I think
we can do this in a lot of people. I I
don't think it's and the the the
institutions always tell me with these
guys, oh they're flukes, they're
anecdotes,
>> you know, and I said why don't you let's
do a big trial. And the problem is I
don't want to start a big trial because
the people doing the trial don't know
anything about what I'm talking about.
So you really need to train a group of
physicians and oncologists and
nutritionists. Everybody is on the same
page. Everybody understands cancer as a
mitochondrial metabolic disease, the new
theory. They need to know their
physiology. They need they need to know
a variety of different aspects of what
they should have been trained for in the
first place. And then they would then
institute the plan. And we're writing
the treatment protocol as we speak. So,
we're getting feedback from physicians
all over the world that are that are
adding and subtracting things from their
personal experience. And then we'll
publish this and then you'll have a
blueprint, a a protocol plan, how to do
it, what to do, all this kind of stuff.
And then we'll start getting feedback.
And then once we start to see success in
many different dimensions, then we can
start a large clinical trial because it
it works for every major cancer. They're
all dependent on the fermentation.
They're not different from each other.
Genetically, they're all different from
each other. Metabolically, they're all
similar to each other.
>> That's a huge point because people are
so in the minutia of the the mutations
and I was at the beginning. I did
advanced genetic testing trying to work
out and and I think there's you know
there's the downstream of that is good
that we need to understand those things
but it's really the you know go go
higher up the tree cut the cut the fuel
off but how do you get it like when when
I go to my a local hospital I walk in
there to mom gets her she's got a porter
calf and we get a blood flush thing done
every month and they're sitting there
all the chemo patients with their
chocolate and they're uh orange juice
and there and the oncologist said to mom
last time when we walked out afterwards,
"Oh, you've lost a bit of weight,
Isabelle. Eat your pudding." And and mom
looks at me and goes, "That ain't
happening, is it?"
>> No, that isn't happening, Mark.
>> Yeah. Well, you see, here's the thing.
And again, it's it's like a a
solidification of the mind. Um, they
were trained
>> Incredible.
>> Yeah. They were trained oncologists were
trained to worry about weight loss and
and we have we have different kinds of
weight loss.
>> So if you have
>> explain kixia. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Weight loss from cexia.
The cancer cells break down the muscles.
They send signals to the muscle and the
muscle breaks down into amino acids. And
some of those amino acids are glutamine
and some of them are lysine and other
glycogenic amino acids that go to the
liver and the liver takes those amino
acids and makes sugar and uh for the
tumor and the glutamine coming out of
the muscle is the other fuel. So your
muscles are diss your cancer is
dissolving your muscles. You're losing
weight because the cancer needs glucose
and glutamine and therefore and that
weight loss is called pathological
weight loss. Then you treat the patient
with toxic chemicals and radiation and
that causes the patient gets so sick
they can't eat and then you get uh starv
or you get another form of poisonous
weight loss because the patient is
poisoned. Uh people who are poisoned
have fatigue, nausea and diarrhea and
this kind of thing. So the knee-jerk
mindless reaction is eat carbohydrates
to put weight back on which is fueling
the tumor that so uh metabolic therapy
causes
therapeutic weight loss. the weight loss
>> therapeutic
>> therapeutic weight loss your body is
getting healthier while you're losing
weight not not sicker and you know even
I've heard
feedback from some patients that are
morbidly obese
um you know 300 more pounds you know 250
kilos or whatever and the and the
physician is worried about weight loss
>> I mean yeah like when you've got a very
thin, slim person, you know, then it's
that that initial weight loss scares the
hell out of them. And I've had and I've
dealt with because I work with a lot of
these people helping them get under the
right doctors and do the right things
and coordinate the exercise and
nutrition
>> and and and and getting people who are
very slim to do this metabolic approach
is really difficult because they're
scared that if they lose a little bit
more weight, they're really going to be
in trouble. But it's therapeutic weight
loss versus pathologic weight loss.
>> Yes. Absolutely. And that and that's not
recognized.
>> No.
>> And and the other crazy thing you see
again from the solidification of the
training in the mind, they look at
ketosis as pathological ketoacidosis.
>> Yeah. Which is
>> therapeutic ketosis.
>> We all evolved in a state of therapeutic
ketosis. But people with type one
diabetes
can get uh ketoacidosis, which is high
blood sugar and ketones, which is a
lethal uh event. And they think, "Oh,
ketogenic diets, you're going to get
keto acidosis." I mean, this is not this
is crazy. You got to know the extremes
of the of what you're of what you're
working with. And then, you know,
they'll come out and say, "Oh, eating
that ketogenic diet is bad for your
heart."
>> Yes. If I sat down all day long and ate
pubs and pubs of lard, yeah, it might
not be good, but that's not what we do.
>> No. And it's not the keto diet of the
bodybuilders and her pounding bacon and,
you know, things like that. My keto diet
for mom was basically small amounts of
protein, mostly white. It's a fish and
chicken. Um, it was iffy on the red
meat. I would love your take on red
meat. Um and I and and vegetables like
you know salads and and and green leafy
vegetables so she got some nutrients and
things in and then we've relaxed it a
little bit of you know in the so that
she can enjoy now 20 months into it but
>> I you know periodically I make it go
hard again because I I know and we
exercise every single day and we do
hyperbaric oxygen therapy. I'd love your
take on that.
>> And and that I have a clinic. I have
oxygen a hyperbaric oxygen clinic and I
and I've I saw it save her life from the
brain injury and then I've seen it be a
big part of her cancer come back as
well.
>> Well, I think as we said in the press
pulse, the patient should be in
therapeutic ketosis when they go into
that chamber. Yeah. and the timing of
the day like they would do a measuring
using the glucose ketone index
calculator to know what po what time of
the day do you have the lowest GKI
>> because it varies on a p every person is
a little different it could vary from
one time to another and they would know
their body rhythm and they would say oh
you know late morning is my best time or
mid-afternoon is my best time or early
evening is my best time and whatever
that is a time that's when they go into
the hyperaric chamber Yep. Yeah. Yep. So
again, this is the doses timing and
scheduling of everything.
>> What about the uh introvenous vitamin C?
Um
>> yeah.
>> Well, you know, um that causes uh
oxidative stress again oxidative stress
on the tumor cells and therapeutic uh
enhancement of the normal cells. Again,
all that works all that stuff works
better when the patient is in ketosis.
>> Yeah. So these are good adjunctive
things to add to the the
>> grain. That's that's part of the whole
diet drug procedural cocktail that that
is all part of the we wrote that and you
know there's a lot of parts to this
therapeutic strategy that we developed
but as physicians need to perfect and
know when what each part when to use
each part and how uh to do it and and
that's what we're we're working on now.
And again, you know, this is not sexy
science. This is what we need to know on
how to use the weapons and the tools
that we have to manage this disease. And
it's we don't have to discover uh
anything more. I mean, there might be
some other drugs that could come along
that could target glutamine in a little
bit better way. But those drugs by
themselves are never going to be the
solution. They may have some therapeutic
benefit, but it'll never be the way it
would be if you also targeted the
glucose
>> and put the passion into nutrition.
>> So, if we
if you know like with with mom's uh
therapy, we did hard out introvenous
vitamin C. We combined that with
hyperbaric. I'd go straight from the the
vitamin C clinic to our our hyperbaric
clinic. Straight in there. She was on a
very low carb keto diet. I I did
struggle at the beginning because she
was on dexamethasone because hers was in
the brain and we had to be on
dexamethasone otherwise her brain would
have taken more and more damage. You
know, it was one of those situations
especially after the surgery. But I got
her off that as fast as I could
>> because that stopped her being in
ketosis, right? So I could not get her
up into the threes and the fours. And
then her microbiome was another thing
that was massively impacted and that
also hindered me getting the ketosis up
to a a really therapeutic level.
>> Um, so it's not always easy to get
people into that therapeutic ketosis, is
it? Like the threes and the fours. Well,
I think I think one of the things that
prevents like when I when my students
that are young kids, well, not kids,
they're in their 20s
>> with no cancer, with no health issues. I
mean, they can get into these zones like
I mean,
>> but 80y old with, you know, history
>> Yeah. I mean, it's harder anything. The
older you get, the harder anything is.
But but they but um uh I find that many
of the conventional
drugs and treatments uh interfere with
uh getting into ketosis.
>> Yes.
>> And um you're you're absolutely correct
about getting off a dexamethasone.
It might be important to have have it
there for a short period of time,
>> but not for long periods of time. Like
in brain cancer, they keep those poor
folks on that high their face swells up.
It's called moon face.
>> Yeah. It's horrible.
>> You can never get you can't get into
therapeutic ketosis when you have high
constant high dexamethasone or any
cancer for that matter. So what do they
do those poor people with glee blastos
and things you know with
>> well we p that's what our big published
case is and and that's what um you know
Anthony um uh clafy there he was a
glyobblast uh he's he's in western
Australia uh in Perth and he treats
glyobblasto patients and I the hardest
part of keeping glyopblasto patients is
is preventing the radiation treatment
Um, the radiation frees up the radiation
frees up massive amounts of glucose and
glutamine in the brain.
>> Holy crap. Really?
>> Yeah. That's why everybody's dead.
>> So, the treatment themselves is killing
everybody. And uh, you know, they get
really upset when I tell them this. Yet
I yet I've published paper after paper
after paper showing the mechanism by
which the very treatment for the GBM
patient uh, solidifies their death. Um,
so you know, we don't want to throw out
all parts of the standard of care. We we
would like to have we have a watchful
waiting period where we can use
metabolic therapy to shrink the tumor
down. The surgeon would come in and then
debulk as much as he can get and then we
transition the patient over to a really
good metabolic therapy without
teemolomide or radiation. And these
folks seem to live and do so much
better. The problem is radiation
oncology has become an institution in
itself. And to to say that you no longer
want to use radiation for brain cancer
management, they get very very angry.
>> But but I said, "What about the poor
patient? I mean, you're angry because
you're not generating revenue uh for
your for your occupation, but that
treatment is absolutely killing your
patient." And so you have this conundrum
uh how do I what can I do now? Uh I you
know I've been doing this my whole life
of radiating people and I went I went
and got all the data from all the
different clinical trials and it's so
beautiful how fast people die from
glyobblasto treatment and I said very
few of us in the sciences can ever
design an experiment to be so
beautifully replicable as the treatment
killing patients with a with a with
standard of care
>> and yet it's still every single one is
going through that you know it's just
>> everywhere fair. As a matter of fact,
the radiation oncology departments are
usually some of the wealthiest parts of
all medical schools.
>> So, so you're not going to get anybody
raising their hand to say, "Let's stop
this anytime soon." U despite the fact
that it's absolutely counterproductive
to the longevity of their patients.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So, are we? That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rockermeer, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paper book via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereed's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge, you're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. Help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save lives.
>> And uh the science is all there. And
then you tell people that you know do
you know about auto warberg? Do you know
about glucose and glutamine? And they
never heard of that. So how is it
possible that you're treating a cancer
patient with a therapy that's freeing up
the very fuels uh that's driving the the
disregulated cell growth and you never
heard of any of this and you never you
don't know the the biology of the tumor
that you're treating. I mean I don't
want to badmouth these poor guys but
they need to be re-educated. They need
to be retrained. uh otherwise we are not
going to get any major advances in
managing these cancers.
The whole system needs to be uh
re-evaluated and reconfigured. So
metabolic it's called metabolic
oncology. Metabolic therapy metabolic
oncology will become the new field to
manage cancer. There's tremendous
resistance on the part of this in the
medical schools. There's a tremendous
desire for this on the part of the
population, the public.
>> The public wants this. The institution
does not want this. So, you got to go
figure what's going to happen.
>> It's going to take a long time.
Well, I mean, as I say in many of my
podcasts, I mean, so we're we're
locked into sacrificing all these poor
souls.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh only because the system does not want
to change. Where's the re with a someone
with cancer and and and I tell them all
of this stuff and I say, "Go and read
this and do this and study that and and
do these interviews and listen to this."
And then they go they go, "Yeah, yeah,
yeah." And then they go to their
oncologist who in their eyes is still
God often.
>> Yes.
>> And then they say they just hoohoo
everything that I've shared with them.
And then the poor the poor person is
going who do I believe her or him or
>> all I say is just look at the statistics
of your survivability using their
procedure. and uh and the and the movie
coming out, the cancer revolution, not
only does your mother
>> but has dozens and dozens of folks that
were also called terminal and they
jumped on the and a lot and it takes a
lot of courage.
>> It does
>> to tell you oncologists you don't want
what they're selling
>> very much
>> courage uh because they come at you with
a with an army of white coats and all
looking like they know what they're
talking about and uh makes you feel real
comfortable. Yep. until that until you
reach a situation where they say, "Well,
there's nothing more we can do."
>> Yep.
>> Uh what do you mean? There was plenty
you could do. Uh but you needed to do it
the right way and well, I never heard of
that or they have all these excuses at
that point.
>> And they never study this the person who
is the outlaw. Nobody has
>> Yeah. I find that astonishing. I can't
tell you how many success stories we
have had from terminally ill patients
that were given very little time to live
who have turned the whole thing around
and then go back to their oncologists
and almost to the person never asking
what the hell did you do? You know what
they say? Wow, that seems to be good.
Just keep doing what you're doing. Well,
don't you know want to know why and how
it turned around? It's like no. Now,
what is infecting the brain of these
people to not want to know why their
patients are doing? They're in the
business to help pay their patients.
They get a patient who does really
really well and they don't want to know
you're an exception and you you get told
you you're I wrote a book about mom's
first journey with the aneurysm and the
stroke and about this. You know,
apparently she's going to die and
there's nothing we can do. That was back
eight years ago.
>> Uh a and her doctor saw her actually
four years later or so. She was walking
down the walkway by herself and I was in
a coffee shop up the road talking to a
friend and her doctor who had written
her off and had said she's below the
level of the worst dementia patient,
word for word. Um and she will never do
anything again. And here she is. She
sees my mom walking by herself down the
walkway. And she comes into the co
coffee shop like, "Oh my god, it's a
miracle. It's a miracle." And your
mother's walking out there and she's by
herself and and I said, "Yeah, do you
want to know what I did?" And she said,
"No." And turned around and walked out
the door.
>> I know. It's unbelievable. I I don't you
somebody should write a book on that.
>> Oh, I do?
>> Because it's like, how is it possible
that you have a solution to the problem
and the very practitioners do not want
to or care about it? And then I had the
head of the medical council here, accuse
me, saying to me, we were having a
robust discussion um about uh all the
woo woo that was presented at this
conference that I was an MC for, you
know, this wellness things. It was
apparently all woo woo And he
said, "You're making people false hope."
And I said, "You took all hope with with
mom. Well, you and your colleagues took
all hope." I I I no you I think many in
many cases uh the the conventional
standard treatments for cancer offers
people false hope. Um now you have to
also realize some of the imunotherapies
have had considerable success
>> uh PDL1 inhibitors the updivo and
cartrida but they don't often talk about
the what we call hyper progressive
disease which is that the the therapies
kill the patient before the tumor does.
Yeah. and you get about 20% of the
people die uh from the treatment. Well,
there should be no reason why you should
treat any human being with a procedure
that would has a a 20% chance of killing
them or making their life worse. Now,
what my what my view is is that if we
use metabolic therapy and we can uh
chisel down a tumor into a nub or a very
residual thing, but we can't no matter
what we throw at them metabolically, it
never seems to go away. um it's always
there. Those kinds of cancers, those
cells have obviously survived a a lot of
uh trauma to their population. But
whatever is left in my view based on
evolutionary biology, they all may
express a certain kind of a marker uh
similar to each other because they all
are that are similar in having survived
this. That's where maybe one of these
targeted imunotherapies
uh could come off come in and finish the
job.
>> Um but ra rather than doing it at the
very beginning uh they should do it
perhaps at the end uh like the final the
final chapter in the in your healing
process may be some one of these fancy
imunotherapies
uh because the tumor now is very
restricted. it's just hanging on and
maybe this one little uh hit with an im
imunotherapy could be the solution
>> uh for comp for complete resolution. Um
but going after tumors uh at the
beginning when they're raging and
knowing that they're driving by glucose
and glutamine and then hitting them with
a drug uh that doesn't target glucose
and glutamine is absurd. It's
nonsensical. And the interesting Yeah.
The interesting thing it's incredible in
brain cancer none of these
imunotherapies work and in many cancers
they don't work and the argument is the
micro environment is so acidified in the
tumor the imunotherapies don't work.
Okay listen what's causing the
acidification it's the fermentable fuels
of glucose and glutamine and the waste
dump products are acidifying the micro
environment. So if I take away glucose
and glutamine, remove the acidification
in the micro environment, now your
aminootherapies may be a lot more
effective.
>> Wow.
>> I mean,
>> it's just that's that you know what I
just said is because I understand the
biology of what we're dealing with.
>> And when you have a clear knowledge of
the biology of the problem, there are
many, many non-toxic solutions to this
problem. The problem is the system uses
the onesizefits-all.
They think cancer is a genetic disease
of sematic mutations. They advertise in
the United States that we have therapies
for the EGFR
receptor, the epidermal growth factor
receptor. Like this is the new This is
This is complete crap. Those
EGFR cancers are are fermenting just
like all the other cancers. Now if you
if you get rid of most of those with
metabolic therapy and the last few in
the tumor have an EGFR receptor then
maybe your uh imunotherapy could come in
and finish the job but you can't go
after a cancer a lung cancer the chances
of complete success are very minimal
shrink it down take away the fermentable
fuels and then if there's some residual
thing you go in with the eGFR receptor
imunotherapy you just you just have to
know because I understand the biology of
the disease. I work on it day and night
247 for 30 damn years.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and once you understand all
this stuff and then you get frustrated
because the no matter how many papers I
publish, no matter how many interviews I
give, it's still they're they don't
understand. I said, gee, what am I going
to do?
>> Yes. But the people on the street are
hearing Dr. Thomas, the people. And when
the people start to hear about this and
start to push back and start to go to
their doctors and start to push for
change, then we slowly slowly turn the
ship around. And it is a it is like
trying to shift a cruise liner, isn't
it? It's it's slow and it's but
>> the patients are the consumers. The
patients are the bene benefactors of all
of this.
>> Yep. And they voting with their feet
eventually. Yes. You know,
>> absolutely. And we're going to be
starting clinics. Uh one of my key uh
colleagues, Dr. Thomas Durier, MD, PhD,
is presently in Burgon, uh, Switzerland,
uh, discussing, uh, clinics and
strategies, uh, for using metabolic
therapy for, uh, cancer and some other
diseases. Um, yeah, it's going to come.
Uh, we're going to clinics will come up.
I I've spoke, you know, the funny thing
is I'm always speaking to these
entrepreneurs who come to me, oh man,
they say, your stuff is so great. This
is so wonderful. and they can never
figure out how they can make a lot of
money on it.
>> Yeah, this is the problem.
>> A big problem.
>> Big big problem. And they come up from
the top business schools and the top
wealthy entrepreneurs. They made
millions on these other things. And now
they say, "Oh, we're going to move into
this area and really kickstart the whole
thing." And then when they find out that
what are you doing? Well, I'm not eating
any. I'm just drinking water, taking a
few cheap repurposed drugs. Oh man, I
don't know how to make money on this. I
mean, what are we gonna do?
>> It's the same in everywhere. It's the
same
>> the patient themselves and their
>> but then you get philanthropists, the
ones who actually want to make a change
and you know
>> Yeah. Well, that's that's who support
our work.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh our my work is supported by
private foundations and philanthropy.
>> Amazing.
>> Uh where they're not interested in how
much money they can make. They just want
to know the money they donate to me, is
it going to have a humanitarian impact?
And believe me, it will. And they just
don't care whether they make a buck.
Some of these guys are already super
wealthy. Uh they just want to know if
they give money to an effort, will will
there be something coming? And the
answer is absolutely because we're
developing glucose the strategies for uh
scheduling timing and uh new drug new
combos of diet drug cocktails. Look at
the paper we just published came out
yesterday from pediatric brain cancer.
We use diet drug therapy. We took a drug
from from pancreatic cancer that was a
complete bust. It had no no therapeutic
benefit in the clinic used by itself for
pancreatic cancer. And then we tested it
on our pre-clinical mouse with no with
no just the drug and it was the same as
the human had no effect. It was it was
we put it together with the rest of our
metabolic cocktail and the damn drug is
super powerful.
>> Awesome. Amazing.
>> Yeah. So, so you so do you want your
drug to work or you just want to make a
lot of money? So, um you know I'm not
against making money. You know, my
students and I have thought about it.
But I said, "Right now, let's make sure
that we that people can live longer like
your mom and and hundreds of others just
to know that we're on the right path."
>> Um, once you know that, I I consider
that uh reward well, we're rewarded
reward in itself. I don't have to make a
billion dollars to know that this
metabolic therapy can can manage. And I
don't want to call can our work a cure
for cancer. I want to say it's an
effective man. It's a better state of
management than we currently have. If
some people are living really really
long without a recurrence, you know, I
think that's wonderful. But, you know, I
don't we don't metabolic therapy doesn't
guaranteed people are going to be cured.
It it pretty much says the probability
of longer time survival with a higher
quality of life. You have a better
chance for that.
>> Yeah. And you can die.
Not not of cancer, you know. That's the
goal at 10 and something, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, this is
this is where it is.
>> And we're all producing cancer cells
every day. It's just that we have immune
systems that for for most of us are on
top of it.
>> Um,
>> you certainly you certainly get rid of
it faster if you did intermittent
fasting.
>> Yeah. The body turns and the dog cancer
paper that we just recently published on
a removing a big mass cell tumor on the
face of a of a dog. Uh, that's a very
interesting study. And in there I I I
put in the concept of autoolytic
cannibalism which is where our body
turns on the tumor and uses it for food.
Uh and this is based again on
evolutionary evolutionary principles. So
and that woman she tried um she didn't
want any chemo or radiation for her dog
and then she put the dog on a on a a
vegetable diet with a little bit of
cooked meat and the damn tumor grew much
faster. And then she looked at that
wolves because all dogs are descendants
of wolves and she said, "Oh, wolves are
carnivores, you know. Um, so she put the
dog on on a raw chicken with fish oil,
raw a little raw egg, a little a little
uh oil and calorie restriction and
within a few months, the damn tumor was
completely gone and the body turns on
it." Oh yeah, look at the data. I have
it all published in there. It's a very
nice case report. And you know, cancer
is number one killer of domestic dogs as
well.
>> Yeah. So, um, yeah, the same strategy,
same strategy works for for every
because all these cancers are
fermenttors regardless if it's a dog, a
mouse, a cat, a human. They're all the
same. Very similar. They can't live
without fermentable fuels. And glucose
and glutamine are the prime fermentable
fuels. So, it all comes together quite
nicely.
>> It does. And so, and you know, I'm just
so grateful for all the stuff that you
are doing. and and I'm and I'm keen for
the nuance now, the the the nuance of
the of the studies that you're doing so
that we can refine things better and do
things a little bit more sophisticated
and training up the doctors like so that
we can get doctors who are going to be
able to do this press strategy, you
know, because not everybody can go it
alone like like I have done,
>> you know, doctors in the mix, but
>> in many of these podcasts because I
don't have time to go through the
nitty-gritty details of everything that
I'm saying. No,
>> but we do publish all these papers open
access. Anybody can go on to the web and
just put my name in there and say
publication. What's he doing? And people
say, "Oh, I talked this and I talked
that. I don't have the evapor.
They're out there. You want you want to
know the details? Read the damn paper.
I'm not I don't have I don't have, you
know, 20 hours to stand here and give
you the details of every one of these uh
pathways, but you can read about them
and you can judge for yourself and then
you can take the paper and talk to your
encologist about it. You know, it's
there
>> and they'll just shut you out at the
moment. But anyway, look, Dr. Thomas,
thank you so much for for uh all of your
your amazing work. It is changing lives,
you and your colleagues. Um and and
shout out to Maggie Bradley and Jones of
the Cancer Revolution. I'm excited for
that movie to come out and and we're
just each one by one getting the message
out there to the people that are
listening to this that need this
information and it's not perfected and
it's not all but it probably never will
be. Uh but we have tools now that we can
we can use right now. So I'm so super
grateful for you and all your work. It's
absolutely amazing. Thank you so much.
Thank you very much, Lisa.